Hello and welcome to this lesson where we're going to take a look at the different lines of code we've
been writing so far in our main function body.
These lines of code are known as statements and there's different kinds of statements in C++.
These statements where we print to the terminal are expressions statements and expressions statement
is one of the most common statements in C++.
Now I want to be clear it's not the fact that we are printing to the terminal that makes these lines
of code expression statements.
For example a line of code where we assign a value to a variable is also an expression statement.
So what is it that makes these lines of code expression statements.
Well it's not too hard to understand the code within both of these lines we have here are expressions
but it's the fact that we have a semicolon on the end of the expression that makes it an expression
statement.
So to summarize an expression followed by a semicolon is an expression statement.
Okay, so what are the lines of code to be have.
Well we have the lines where we declare variables these are declaration statements and a declaration
statement is pretty straightforward it's simply some code that declares something and in our case our
declaration statements are declaring our variables.
Okay so in our code we have our include preprocessor directive.
We have our main function and our expression and declaration statements that make up the body of our
main function.
And we also have the return statement of the main function.
Now I want you to pause here because I want you to head over to our community forum and in your own
words I want you to post about each section of code we have here.
What is hash include iostream doing?
Why do we have the main function in our file?
What's are our expression and declarations statements doing in the terms of our gameplay play? And why
do we have the return statement in our main function?
So pause here to post about these sections of code in your own words and then when you're ready we can
move on to commenting our code
okay.
So I hope you had a go at posting in the community to break down each of these.
Well done if you did.
We're going to move on now by taking a look at comments in C++.
We can comment our code. Comments can be used to make your code more easily understood by yourself or
by other programmers reading your code.
Now what does it look like when we comment our code in C++.
Well it can look like this as an example.
Comments are kind of like mini notes in our code and the compiler ignores comments too. Anything after
a double slash on a single line of code is ignored by the compiler.
So to write comments in our code we enter two forward double slashes onto a line and then start typing
out our comment.
And right now I want you to have a go at commenting some of your code.
So pause here to insert a new line at the start of your main function body and comment your first messages
that you print to the terminal.
If somebody was to read your code how would you describe to them what's happening in just a few words.
So make sure to comment wisely.
We don't want to write a story here just a few words will do so pause here to comment your code and
then we can take a look at commenting together
Okay so I'm just gonna go ahead and comment some of my code.
I'm going to insert a new line at the start of my main function body and to add a comment.
We can use two slashes or two forward slashes and now anything that is entered on the rest of this line
is going to be ignored by the compiler.
And this is a single line comment.
So what are the expressions below do.
Well they're kind of printing an intro message to the terminal or a welcome message to our game.
So we could comment something like print welcome messages to the terminal and that's our first comment.
Now we could continue commenting our code, what are we doing with our A B and C variables here.
Well we are declaring our three number code so we could actually just comment that declare three
number code and it's quite clear what we're doing with the sum and the product.
We don't we need to comment that. We could comment
our final expression statements here with something like "print sum and product to the terminal."
Okay great so we've now commented our code and I just want to show you the multi line comment before
we end this lesson.
I'm going to add a few new lines above where we declare the sum and the product we can create multi
line comments by typing a forward slash followed by an asterisk.
This opens the multi line comment so we need to close the multi line comment.
So on a couple of lines below this I'm going to just close that multi line comment by putting in a asterisk
again followed by a forward slash.
And anything we write between these lines is a comment but we're not going to use as multi line comment
for anything.
I just wanted to show you how we can write multi line comments.
So I'm going to remove it and we're gonna wrap up this lesson here.
And when you're ready I'll see you in the next one.